Hello and welcome in this lecture we are going to be learning how to write into our save file and how
we can convert text into binary so that it can be written into a file.
Let's dive right in.
So now that we have a file we want to save too.
We actually need to have the ability to write to that file and this can be achieved using some C sharp
API.
In particular we're looking at the file dots open API which is going to do what it sounds like it's
going to take a file path and it's going to open that file into something that we can write into as
you can see here the thing that is returned is called a file stream and a stream is a lot like an iron
numerator in the sense that it's a bit like a Pringles tube except that this time we can put Pringles
into the tube as well as take them out.
So that's what we're going to be doing in order to write to our file.
But first we want to extract this path variable.
So I'm going to highlight it and then introduce a new local for this and I'm going to call the local
variable path like so.
And then that is what we're going to.
I can open the path but notice there is another argument here.
It is a file mode.
What is this.
File mode is an enum which allows us to tell the basically the operating system how we want to operate
on this file do we want to append to it.
Do we wants to create a new file to create create new open and open or create.
And so on and so forth.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna use create basically what the create mode does is specified in this
documentation linked against your resources.
So here it says create and it creates a new file and if the file already exists it will be overwritten.
That's what we want to be doing.
We want to be overwriting our save file whenever we save.
Now notice the difference between this and create new create new on the other hand says if the file
already exists it throws an exception.
So this really wants to create make sure that there was no file there before.
We are happy with the former approach file mode dot create.
And then as mentioned that the return type is the file stream data type.
And I'm just going to call this the stream for now and assign the value coming out from file open.
What is the stream.
What can we do with it.
Well there are a few methods of interest.
Let's have a look at them.
We have got things like right.
We have got right byte.
And we have got things like read as well so we can read and we can read a bite.
Now why are we talking about reading bytes.
For example why why is that.
If I wants to write a text file why can't I just write text.
Well because as far as files are concerned the contents of a file is just binary.
There's no such thing as a text file or a binary file that is just conventions of how we format text
in a text file it is usually using an encoding we'll get to that in just a second.
But basically any file is just made up of binary which is why we can write to it or read from it as
bytes which are basically eight bits.
Now there's one more thing we have to do with things like file stream because they are what is known
as an unmanaged resource that's a bit of a fancy way of saying that it's not automatically going to
be cleared up for us or at least not at that particular given time.
So we want to be clear about when this gets cleared up.
So at the end whenever you're using a file stream you should remember to try and close it well not try
to but always close your file streams when you are using them.
There's a few reasons for this but one of the primary ones is that whenever you ask to open a file it
is making a request to the operating system to open that file for you.
And the operating system allocates a file handle for you and that file handle does not get removed until
you hit close.
So if you are constantly opening files opening files then these file handles are building up on the
operating system side and eventually the operating system will say say nope you've reached your maximum
number of file handles.
You can't have any more.
And so you'll get an error as if you sort of like having run out of memory.
So it's always important to clean up address all because we don't want to run out of memory or whatever
other resource we might be using.
So let's have a go and see if we can write something into the file stream.
We're going to write in a bite.
I'm going to do a right bite which is going to take in a bite value we've never used this before in
C sharp for many of us.
And so it's interesting what is a bike value well you can just use a number.
So I could say 102 for example and it's going to convert this hundred and two into its binary value
and it's going to save that in to the file.
So we should end up with a file if we save that contains whatever the byte value of 102 actually is.
So I'm gonna go ahead and reload or it's automatically reloaded.
Let's go ahead and hit the save button in the editor and I'm going to go ahead and open up this file
in Visual Studio.
So I'm going to copy the path and go to visual studio code and open file so I'm gonna navigate to the
persistent data folder and access the save file like so and you can see that the character in here has
been represented as f for whatever reason why has that been represented as f.
Well this is the point at which I tell you that there is no such thing as text in a binary system in
in a computer.
Computer does not understand what text is but there are conventions for representing it in binary and
you've probably heard of some of them such as ASCII for example you've probably heard of ASCII codes.
Well this is what they mean basically it is a mapping between characters as you can see here like the
character capsule a and a particular binary value so you can see there's various things in here various
values along this table.
What we're interested in here the decimal value which then gets converted into a binary number but basically
we're saying that the binary number represented by 65 that binary number that represents 65 is a where
as the lower letter lowercase letter A is ninety seven.
So that we can test out by having a look we've printed out f and what is lowercase f lowercase F is
102.
Exactly what I wrote out in the bytes.
Okay.
So that's great.
There is actually what's going on here.
You can see what encoding is being used in Visual Studio code by going down to the bottom right and
you see here where it says UTF 8.
That's what is going to default to.
You can swap it to other things in here choose re-open with encoding for example and you can choose
myriad different types of encoding which are just different versions of this table.
So if I went to reopen with encoding and I chose ASCII I don't think I can choose ASCII actually.
And the reason for that is actually UTF 8 is a superset of ASCII is ASCII.
Plus basically with lots of extended codes here we've got a very limited character set but in UTF 8
what you can do is you can have all the same characters if we look down here the Latin capital letter
A is forty one as hexadecimal and if we have a look here in our hexadecimal characters then a is 41
so they're matching up but the cool thing about UTF 8 is that if you scroll on down here we have actually
got certain characters that take up more than one byte so if you wanted to have an A with an accent
on it there's actually represented by two bytes rather than just one.
We could actually do that.
Let's give it a go.
So we're going to use the hexadecimal version of the number.
Now if you're not sure about what binary in hexadecimal and decimal are then take a look at this article
in your resources that should help you understand what the differences are.
Now I can write hexadecimal in C sharp by starting with 0 x and then the hexadecimal character codes
which is C3 like so.
So that is going to write a byte which is going to be hexadecimal C3 and then I'm going to write hexadecimal
80 which should in theory these two bytes give us the accented capital A.
So let's go and try that out pop over to the scene wait for it reload hit save and then go and have
a look at our save file and sure enough there is one character there even though there are two bytes
and that's because we're using the UTF 8 encoding.
Down here in Visual Studio code.
So your challenge is going to be to write to this file and we're going to do a little bit of variation
on the usual hello world.
We're going to write all our Moondog with the upside down exclamation point at the beginning here.
Now all our Mundo is hello world in Spanish.
And I choose it because it has a quirky character in it and that means we have to use UTF 8 in order
to write out this message.
So you're going to write about one bite at a time.
Initially use the reference included and that's the child.
That's the main challenge and if you want a bonus you can also see if you can use a byte array instead
of calling write byte repeatedly.
Pause the video and have a go okay.
Welcome back.
So let's give this a shot.
I might speed through this because it's going to involve me going back and forth between this table
quite a lot.
So the first thing is I have this inverted exclamation point it is here in my uni UTF 8 character table
that is linked and we can see that it is going to be C followed by a 1.
So start with C2 followed by a 1 being the binary values in hexadecimal.
That should give us the inverted exclamation point and then I'm going to speed on through the rest
so if like me you got a little bit bored copying and pasting from a table repeatedly then you might
have only got as far as all the.
The important thing is that you've tried it out a little bit.
I got bored quite quickly to be honest and I just want to show you that this encoding can be done much
more easily if by code.
So if we do encoding dot UTF 8 that's going to use the UTF 8 encoding and I would just include the right
namespace here what's namespace is it's using sys dot text is the one we want so encoding dot UTF 8
and then we can do get bytes which takes in the string so I can then type in the old Mundo from my slides
to copy over the bytes here because I don't actually have this key on my keyboard so when I'm on the
like so and then we are going to get the UTF 8 encoding from this what is the return type is a byte
array so byte array which I'm going to call bytes and then we need to write this array so you could
do this as a full loop or we can use the right method which takes the byte array and funnily enough
for reasons that we're not gonna go into too much.
Also you have to tell it where to start reading from that byte Ray and where to finish reading from
the binary which is just gonna be the bytes dot length like so.
So there's reasons for that but we're not gonna go into too much detail as to why that is.
So now I can remove all these write bytes and we can go ahead and try it out.
So saving once the project reloaded and then go to save and you can see that it is successfully written
in UTF 8 in to this save file.
So I've learned a lot in this lecture hopefully now you know how to open files how to write to them
and how to convert text in to binary so that it can be written into a file.
Next lecture we're going to be doing the inverse of this and reading from the file see you there.